Specify syntax of Text E-expressions, and align with template invocations. (#308)
amzn/ion-docs: src/eexprs.adoc

* `(:__module-name__:__macro-name__ …)` lookup by name in an installed module.
* `(:__module-name__:__address__ …)` lookup by address in an installed module.

// TODO link or write more precise resolution rules.

NOTE: The parenthesis, colon, and macro reference are a single syntactic token,
allowing no white space.
The names are neither string nor symbol tokens, and thus may not use quotes or
escapes or `$_uint_` symbol-table addresses.
This reflects the idea that macros behave like new syntactic forms, with this
entire character sequence determining the syntax that follows inside the
expression.

Following the opening macro reference and whitespace, E-expressions follow
S-expression tokenization and whitespace rules.
The remaining elements are arguments supplying inputs to the macro,
each one either _individual_ or _grouped_.
The syntax that can appear in each argument position is constrained by the
macro’s signature.

The number of argument elements (that is, the invocation’s actual arity)
must be equal to or greater than the macro’s minimum arity, and at most its
maximum arity, when one exists.
In other words, an E-expression must contain one element for each required

> parameter, followed by optional elements for the remaining optional parameters.

Reviewer: This wording is confusing because it's not clear if "required parameter" in this context means "a parameter with `!` cardinality" or "an argument that must be provided at the call site" (and similarly for "optional parameter"). Some readers may understand it to imply that `?` parameters must come after `!` parameters in the signature.

I think some examples would go a long way here.

Author: "required parameter" should be a formally-defined term: a parameter is _required_ if its not _optional_.  Specifically, every `!` / `+` / `...+` parameter is required, as are any preceding parameters.

I thought that was in the glossary but apparently it's not, so I'll add.

Author: Also, there are examples in 3.12 in the "macros by example" section that include required `?` and `*` parameters.  I'll add a link.

// TODO links for arity, optional parameters
// TODO base type? base shape?  base form?  encoding?

The syntax of each argument is defined by the associated parameter’s cardinality
and type.
The cardinality determines whether an argument group can be used to collect a
series of individual arguments, and the type determines the syntax of an
individual argument, grouped or not.

The parameter type constrains the syntax of an individual argument as follows:

* For tagged types, an individual argument must be a single E-expression or any

>   datum (which may contain nested E-expressions).

Reviewer: Are we defining "datum" somewhere? Is it distinct from "value" in some way?

Author: We've not defined 'datum', and it might not be the best term. (Other than this line it's only used in the grammar: `(**literal** _datum_)`.  

I'm using it here to mean "syntax tree" as the semantic model defines it, but that term hasn't been incorporated into this document.

"Value" is not correct; since these are syntax trees and we use "value" to denote the results of expanding syntax trees.

Another way to write this might be:

> For tagged types, an individual argument must be a single syntax tree, which may be an E-expression and/or contain nested E-expressions.

But ATM that doesn't seem better since we don't currently talk in detail about the expansion process.  (Another gap in the document!)

* For primitive types, an individual argument must be a non-null, non-annotated
  datum of the corresponding concrete type, within the range accepted by the
  primitive type.
* For macro types, an individual argument must be an unannotated S-expression
  containing arguments acceptable to that macro’s signature.

>   Here, the S-expression is implicitly converted to the equivalent E-expression.

Reviewer: Could we add a name for these?
```suggestion
  This is called a _macro-shaped argument_.
  A macro-shaped argument is implicitly converted to the equivalent E-expression.
```

The parameter cardinality constrains the syntax of the overall argument
element(s), particularly whether a group is allowed.
In text E-expressions, argument groups are delimited using the special syntax
`(: …)` where the colon is followed by whitespace or `)` instead of a macro
reference.
Each element of an argument group must fit the same syntax rules as for an
individual argument.

* A `!` parameter accepts only a single individual argument.
* A `?` parameter accepts either a single individual argument
  or an empty argument group `(:)`.
* A `*` or `+` parameter accepts either a single individual argument,
  or an argument group `(: …)`.
* A rest parameter captures all remaining arguments of the E-expression,
  each of which must match the individual argument syntax.
  For a `...+` parameter there must be at least one such argument.

// TODO clarify whether a `+` group must contain at least one element.

The rules above determine whether an E-expression is _well-formed_.
Any violation of the above constraints must signal a syntax error when the

> E-expression is parsed.

Reviewer: Does this imply anything about the eagerness of the parsing? Or whether an Ion reader may skip parsing some data in a stream (e.g. by skipping past a container)?

Author: I tried to avoid any such implication here, since I don't think we know exactly how that should work.   I think that gap is part of #307 noted in the next paragraph.

  datum of the corresponding concrete type, within the range accepted by the
  primitive type.
* For macro types, an individual argument must be an unannotated S-expression
  containing arguments acceptable to that macro’s signature.
  This is called a _macro-shaped argument_.
  A macro-shaped argument is implicitly converted to the equivalent E-expression.

The parameter cardinality constrains the syntax of the overall argument
element(s), particularly whether a group is allowed.
In text E-expressions, argument groups are delimited using the special syntax
`(: …)` where the colon is followed by whitespace or `)` instead of a macro
reference.
Each element of an argument group must fit the same syntax rules as for an
individual argument.

* A `!` parameter accepts only a single individual argument.
* A `?` parameter accepts either a single individual argument
  or an empty argument group `(:)`.
* A `*` or `+` parameter accepts either a single individual argument,
  or an argument group `(: …)`.
* A rest parameter captures all remaining arguments of the E-expression,
  each of which must match the individual argument syntax.

>   For a `...+` parameter there must be at least one such argument.

Reviewer 2: I think our presence bits encoding on the binary side makes it feasible to accept any expression in each position and enforce cardinality constraints uniformly at expansion time.

EDIT: I see #307 covers this discussion
